"Ada, give me a status report." Captain Logan Martinez sauntered onto the bridge of the Delphis XI. Ready for the prompt, Ada responded with what she knew they captain would want to hear, "sir, we are approximately 0.0128 AU from interception, meaning we are about a day out." As Captain Martinez settled into his seat he groaned, "another day to intercept, another 5 years to Barnard's Star." He looked to his newest bridge officer, a young Lieutenant named Uriel Freeman, "did they tell you space was going to be so boring rookie?" Uriel blushed in response, not expecting to be addressed by a commanding officer in such a nonchalant way, "uh, yessir, they gave us extensive training on how to manage our time on long voyages, plus they profiled us psychologically when we were recruited sir."

Martinez shook his head, "so they taught you how to deal with boredom, but didn't do anything about you being boring?" he chuckled, "Lighten up rookie, we got a long way to go and it's gonna get stuffy in here if you don't loosen up." "Yes, uh, sir," Uriel responded. Martinez glanced toward Ada and rolled his eyes with a smirk on his face. Ada said, "Captain, would you like me to start calculating our insertion trajectory?" "Yes m'am Martinez responded," with his southern drawl, "now is a good a time as any."

Ada had extensive experience in "wave riding" as it was colloquially termed. Because of the nature of hitching a ride in the wake of an alien vessel, every ship had to have a dedicated science officer onboard that was extensively trained in what humanity had come to know as warp bubble theory. No one knew how to generate a warp bubble, or how "they" generated their warp bubbles, but understanding how to interact with them and ride the space-time wave that were generated in their wake was the key to humanity's expansion beyond the solar system.

Inexperienced science officers were never allowed to calculate and plan an insertion on their own, but this was not Ada's first mission. As the captain had prompted her, she would prompt her subordinates to handle most of the calculations before she reviewed the insertion plan and turned it over to navigation and engineering. Ada had never experienced an unsuccessful insertion, or even witnessed one, but she had heard stories. It was critical to build a perfect model of the insertion and for everything to go exactly as the most successful run of the model.

Ezra Thorne was on a pilgrimage. He had been born almost half a century after the anomalous gravitational waves leading to the discovery of city sized alien vessels traveling at the speed of light just outside the solar system, had first been detected. Life on earth changed after the announcement. Slowly at first, but rapidly after scientists determined a way to intercept and ride in the wake of the warp bubbles generated by the giant vessels.

Even before the first successful insertion, a religion had sprung up regarding the mysterious aliens and their purpose in the cosmos. The fact that no attempt to communicate with them was ever acknowledged only fueled the early conspiracy theories that would eventually evolve into a full fledge religion. The aliens themselves were never seen; even their vessels were impossible to image due to the nature of light when traveling at that speed. Analyzing the gravitational waves generated by the vessels were the only way humans knew the approximate size of the vessels.

For the Stellaris Fellowship, considering these beings aliens in the way that a secular humanist scientist might think of them was tantamount to blasphemy. In their estimation Einstein remained correct, no physical being could travel at the speed of light. Ezra had been raised in the Fellowship. To him these were spiritual entities. And to travel their paths is a spiritual journey. One which he had spent most of his life training for.

Though the believers knew they had to travel with heretics to embark on their pilgrimage, they took solace in the fact that every successful insertion had included a member of the Fellowship onboard. The few, and early, unsuccessful insertions had been conducted by heretics alone. Or at least that was what had been taught inside the Fellowship. For years the fledgling religion had lobbied governemnts to send their members on human crewed ships bound for insertion. The world watched as the first successful human crewed insertion mission included a Fellowship member, Jacob Seraphim. Seraphim was a founding member of the Fellowship and the first pilgrim to begin his journey through the cosmos.

Ezra looked forward to meeting Jacob one day out among the stars. As far as any human being knew, the vessels, or beings, that traveled between the stars at the speed of light never stopped at a star. They only passed closed by several start systems within hundreds of light years from Earth. The human ships that traveled in their wake never followed the vessels to their destinations. Missions had only been undertaken, so far, to solar systems within a 100 light years of Earth. Ezra planned to journey with the spirits until he reached the end of his journey, either physically, or spiritually. The goal of the Fellowship was to become one with the stars and their travelers. “From Stars we came and to stars we shall return,” Ezra muttered to himself.

The communication channel in his room buzzed and Ezra prompted the system to answer. “Mr. Thorne, this is Lt. Freeman, we are ready for you on the bridge.” “I’ll be right there, thank you.” Ezra responded. “You are welcome sir,” replied Lt. Freeman. So it was time… His first insertion. Ezra’s spirit swelled. Every insertion was now led with a prayer by a Fellowship member asking the cosmic entities for safe passage on the pilgrimage. Ezra did it only for hisself, though other members of the ship thought he was asking for safe passage for the vessel and it’s crew. To the fellowship, outsiders were only a means to an end.